# Entry 1
##### 11/8/22
The SEP11 freedom project is about choosing a tool to work with and then making something from that tool. It can be anything, a digital planner, music making application, or even a video game. My original idea was to try to make an arm program, resembling something like photoshop or clip studio paint. I wanted to go in this direction because I have always been a fan of making art and I figured, why not make my own art program? When I looked up materials and at the list of tools my teacher gave the class, there were not many options. My only options seemed to be between [p5.js](https://p5js.org/) and [d3.js](https://d3js.org/). The first thing I did when looking at these tools was going to the documentation and the stuff that was made with them. I then found that d3.js was more towards visualizing data like graphs and bars than something artsy like I had in mind. p5.js seemed more directly aimed at art, so I leaned towards p5.js and started to test out what it had to offer in the web editor they have on their website.

One of the first things I tested was their "get started" part of the main page where it made me go to the editor. The code made it so, on the given canvas, a circle would draw constantly, a white circle with a black outline. Then whenever the mouse was pressed, the circle would turn black. I messed with the code and messed with many of the values to see how I could adjust the opacities and sizes of the circle. Then I changed `elipse()` to `triangle()` to see what would change. What I didn't know is that based on the shape, the arguments made would be different, so it did not come out as I had wished. And even figuring out the argument values it still did not work. However, later on through looking at tutorials and other code snippets, I found out that my mistake was setting solid numbers for the x and y values and not knowing the default origin point.

After a little bit I got stumped and didn't know where to go from there but my teacher directed me to a playlist of video tutorials on p5.js. These videos better helped me understand p5.js and what it was meant for. I even took a deeper dive by looking at all sorts of videos. However I started to realize something. p5.js was more about creating the art, rather than allowing a platform for the user to directly make anything. I still wanted to use p5.js because I was liking it a lot but now my original idea was null and void because of this. I didn't know where to go from there until I looked at multiple people's videos making things in p5.js. Mainly two different projects inspired this newer idea. The first was a project of someone making their logo into a bunch of dots and having them go away from the cursor everytime it got close only to go back to their original position. The second were a bunch of random lines coming together to form widely known paintings. This gave me my new idea which was to turn any user given image into pointalism. Pointalism is an art style where a painting is made up simply from dots. The way each dot is placed, and the color of the dots, would come together to create the full image.

While this is the new idea I have settled for right now, this is subject to change because of the wide range of stuff p5.js allows. Currently I am in the 1st(Define) and 2nd(Research) stages of the engineering design process. I am figuring out what I would like to do and what I will be able to start doing to get there. I built on a lot of skills the past few weeks such as learning, googling, and reading due to the amount of research I ended up doing on p5.js looking up tutorials, reading documentation and articles. One of the biggest things this challenged was my creativity. It took me a lot of time and inspiration to figure out what I truly wanted to do.

[Next](entry02.md)

[Home](../README.md)
